.TH sixbit-WALLET "1" "April 2026" "sixbit-wallet v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sixbit-wallet \- wallet management tool for Sixbit Core
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit-wallet
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sixbit Core sixbit-wallet utility version v1.0.0
.PP
The
.B sixbit-wallet
tool is an offline utility for creating and interacting with Sixbit Core wallet files.
.PP
By default,
.B sixbit-wallet
operates on wallets in the default mainnet wallet directory within the data directory.
.PP
To select a different wallet or location, use the
\fB-datadir\fR,
\fB-wallet\fR,
and chain selection options.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB-datadir=\fR<dir>
.IP
Specify data directory.
.HP
\fB-dumpfile=\fR<file>
.IP
When used with \fBdump\fR, writes wallet records to this file.
When used with \fBcreatefromdump\fR, loads records from this file into a new wallet.
.HP
\fB-help\fR
.IP
Print this help message and exit (also \fB-h\fR or \fB-?\fR).
.HP
\fB-version\fR
.IP
Print version information and exit.
.HP
\fB-wallet=\fR<name>
.IP
Specify wallet name.

.PP
Debugging options:
.HP
\fB-debug=\fR<category>
.IP
Output debugging information (default: none).
.HP
\fB-printtoconsole\fR
.IP
Send debug information to the console.

.PP
Chain selection options:
.HP
\fB-chain=\fR<chain>
.IP
Use the chain <chain> (default: main). Allowed values: main, test, testnet4, signet, regtest.
.HP
\fB-signet\fR
.IP
Use the signet chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=signet\fR.
.HP
\fB-signetchallenge\fR
.IP
Blocks must satisfy the given script to be considered valid (signet only).
.HP
\fB-signetseednode\fR
.IP
Specify a seed node for the signet network (hostname[:port]). May be specified multiple times.
.HP
\fB-testnet\fR
.IP
Use the testnet3 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=test\fR.
This option is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
.HP
\fB-testnet4\fR
.IP
Use the testnet4 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=testnet4\fR.

.PP
Commands:
.IP
create
.IP
Create a new descriptor wallet file.
.IP
createfromdump
.IP
Create a new wallet from a dump file.
.IP
dump
.IP
Print all wallet key-value records.
.IP
info
.IP
Display wallet information.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 The Sixbit Core developers
.PP
Please contribute if you find Sixbit Core useful. Visit
<https://6bit.dev/>
for further information.
.PP
Source code is available at
<https://github.com/6bit-core/6bit>.
.PP
This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license; see the accompanying file COPYING
or
<https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sixbitd(1), sixbit-cli(1), sixbit-tx(1), sixbit-wallet(1), sixbit-util(1), sixbit-qt(1)