.TH sixbit "1" "April 2026" "sixbit v1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
sixbit \- unified command-line interface for Sixbit Core

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR [args...]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiprocess\fR
Run multiprocess mode using sixbit-node and sixbit-gui.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-monolithic\fR
Run monolithic mode using sixbitd and sixbit-qt (default).

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show full help message.

.SS "Commands:"
.TP
gui [ARGS]
Start GUI (equivalent to 'sixbit-qt' or 'sixbit-gui').

.TP
node [ARGS]
Start node (equivalent to 'sixbitd' or 'sixbit-node').

.TP
rpc [ARGS]
Call RPC method (equivalent to 'sixbit-cli -named').

.TP
wallet [ARGS]
Call wallet command (equivalent to 'sixbit-wallet').

.TP
tx [ARGS]
Manipulate hex-encoded transactions (equivalent to 'sixbit-tx').

.TP
help
Show full help message.

.SS "Additional less commonly used commands:"
.TP
bench [ARGS]
Run benchmark tool (equivalent to 'bench_sixbit').

.TP
chainstate [ARGS]
Run kernel chainstate utility (equivalent to 'sixbit-chainstate').

.TP
test [ARGS]
Run unit tests (equivalent to 'test_sixbit').

.TP
test-gui [ARGS]
Run GUI unit tests (equivalent to 'test_sixbit-qt').

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009-2026 The Sixbit Core developers

Please contribute if you find Sixbit Core useful.
Visit <https://6bit.dev/> for more information.

Source code:
<https://github.com/6bit-core/6bit>

This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license. See COPYING or
<https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sixbitd (1),
.BR sixbit-cli (1),
.BR sixbit-tx (1),
.BR sixbit-wallet (1),
.BR sixbit-qt (1),
.BR sixbit-util (1)