.TH 6BIT-CLI "1" "April 2026" "sixbit-cli v30.2.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
sixbit-cli \- command-line RPC client for Sixbit Core

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit-cli
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR [params...]

.br
.B sixbit-cli
[\fIoptions\fR] \fB-named\fR \fIcommand\fR [name=value...]

.br
.B sixbit-cli
[\fIoptions\fR] help [command]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Command-line RPC client for Sixbit Core (v30.2.0).

.PP
sixbit-cli provides a command-line interface to interact with a Sixbit Core RPC server.

.PP
It can be used to query network information, manage wallets, create or broadcast transactions, and control the Sixbit Core server.

.PP
Use "help" to list all commands, or "help <command>" for detailed help.
The \fB-named\fR option allows parameters to be passed using key=value format.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-color=\fR<when>
Color output (default: auto). Values: always, auto, never.

.TP
\fB-conf=\fR<file>
Specify configuration file (default: sixbit.conf).

.TP
\fB-datadir=\fR<dir>
Specify data directory.

.TP
\fB-help\fR
Print help message and exit.

.TP
\fB-named\fR
Use named instead of positional arguments.

.TP
\fB-rpcconnect=\fR<ip>
Connect to node at <ip> (default: 127.0.0.1).

.TP
\fB-rpcport=\fR<port>
Connect to JSON-RPC on <port>.

.TP
\fB-rpcuser=\fR<user>
RPC username.

.TP
\fB-rpcpassword=\fR<pw>
RPC password.

.TP
\fB-rpcwait\fR
Wait for RPC server to start.

.TP
\fB-rpcwallet=\fR<wallet>
Use specific wallet.

.TP
\fB-stdin\fR
Read arguments from standard input.

.TP
\fB-version\fR
Print version and exit.

.SH CHAIN OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-chain=\fR<chain>
Select chain (main, testnet4, signet, regtest).

.TP
\fB-signet\fR
Use signet chain.

.TP
\fB-testnet4\fR
Use testnet4 chain.

.SH CLI COMMANDS

.TP
\fB-addrinfo\fR
Show known address statistics.

.TP
\fB-generate\fR
Generate blocks.

.TP
\fB-getinfo\fR
Get general node information.

.TP
\fB-netinfo\fR
Show network peer information.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009-2026 The Sixbit Core developers

This is experimental software.

Distributed under the MIT license.
See COPYING or <https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sixbitd (1),
.BR sixbit-qt (1),
.BR sixbit-tx (1),
.BR sixbit-wallet (1)