.TH sixbit-UTIL "1" "April 2026" "sixbit-util v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sixbit-util \- utility commands for Sixbit Core
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit-util
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR]
.br
.B sixbit-util
[\fIoptions\fR] \fBgrind\fR \fI<hex-block-header>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sixbit Core sixbit-util utility version v1.0.0
.PP
The
.B sixbit-util
tool provides utility functionality related to sixbit that does not require access to a running node.
Available commands are listed below.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB-help\fR
.IP
Print this help message and exit (also \fB-h\fR or \fB-?\fR).
.HP
\fB-version\fR
.IP
Print version and exit.

.PP
Chain selection options:
.HP
\fB-chain=\fR<chain>
.IP
Use the chain <chain> (default: main). Allowed values: main, test, testnet4, signet, regtest.
.HP
\fB-signet\fR
.IP
Use the signet chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=signet\fR.
.HP
\fB-signetchallenge\fR
.IP
Blocks must satisfy the given script to be considered valid (only for signet networks).
.HP
\fB-signetseednode\fR
.IP
Specify a seed node for the signet network in hostname[:port] format. May be used multiple times.
.HP
\fB-testnet\fR
.IP
Use the testnet3 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=test\fR. Support for testnet3 is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Consider moving to testnet4.
.HP
\fB-testnet4\fR
.IP
Use the testnet4 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=testnet4\fR.

.PP
Commands:
.IP
grind
.IP
Perform proof of work on a hex-encoded block header.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 The Sixbit Core developers
.PP
Please contribute if you find Sixbit Core useful. Visit
<https://6bit.dev/>
for further information about the software.
.PP
The source code is available from
<https://github.com/6bit-core/6bit>.
.PP
This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license; see the accompanying file COPYING
or
<https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sixbitd(1), sixbit-cli(1), sixbit-tx(1), sixbit-wallet(1), sixbit-util(1), sixbit-qt(1)