.TH sixbit-TX "1" "April 2026" "sixbit-tx v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sixbit-tx \- create and modify raw sixbit transactions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit-tx
[\fIoptions\fR] \fI<hex-tx>\fR [\fIcommands\fR]
.br
.B sixbit-tx
[\fIoptions\fR] \fB-create\fR [\fIcommands\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sixbit Core sixbit-tx utility version v1.0.0
.PP
The
.B sixbit-tx
tool is used for creating and modifying raw sixbit transactions.
.PP
It can be used with
.B "<hex-tx> [commands]"
to update a hex-encoded sixbit transaction, or with
.B "-create [commands]"
to create a new hex-encoded sixbit transaction.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB-create\fR
.IP
Create a new, empty transaction.
.HP
\fB-help\fR
.IP
Print this help message and exit (also \fB-h\fR or \fB-?\fR).
.HP
\fB-json\fR
.IP
Select JSON output.
.HP
\fB-txid\fR
.IP
Output only the hex-encoded transaction ID of the resulting transaction.
.HP
\fB-version\fR
.IP
Print version and exit.

.PP
Chain selection options:
.HP
\fB-chain=\fR<chain>
.IP
Use the chain <chain> (default: main). Allowed values: main, test, testnet4, signet, regtest.
.HP
\fB-signet\fR
.IP
Use the signet chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=signet\fR.
.HP
\fB-signetchallenge\fR
.IP
Blocks must satisfy the given script to be considered valid (only for signet networks).
.HP
\fB-signetseednode\fR
.IP
Specify a seed node for the signet network in hostname[:port] format. May be used multiple times.
.HP
\fB-testnet\fR
.IP
Use the testnet3 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=test\fR. Support for testnet3 is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Consider moving to testnet4.
.HP
\fB-testnet4\fR
.IP
Use the testnet4 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=testnet4\fR.

.PP
Commands:
.IP
delin=N
.IP
Delete input N from the transaction.
.IP
delout=N
.IP
Delete output N from the transaction.
.IP
in=TXID:VOUT(:SEQUENCE_NUMBER)
.IP
Add an input to the transaction.
.IP
locktime=N
.IP
Set transaction lock time to N.
.IP
nversion=N
.IP
Set transaction version to N.
.IP
outaddr=VALUE:ADDRESS
.IP
Add an address-based output to the transaction.
.IP
outdata=[VALUE:]DATA
.IP
Add a data-based output to the transaction.
.IP
outmultisig=VALUE:REQUIRED:PUBKEYS:PUBKEY1:PUBKEY2:....[:FLAGS]
.IP
Add a pay-to-n-of-m multisig output to the transaction. n = REQUIRED, m = PUBKEYS.
Optionally add the "W" flag to produce a pay-to-witness-script-hash output.
Optionally add the "S" flag to wrap the output in a pay-to-script-hash output.
.IP
outpubkey=VALUE:PUBKEY[:FLAGS]
.IP
Add a pay-to-pubkey output to the transaction. Optionally add the "W" flag to produce a pay-to-witness-pubkey-hash output. Optionally add the "S" flag to wrap the output in a pay-to-script-hash output.
.IP
outscript=VALUE:SCRIPT[:FLAGS]
.IP
Add a raw script output to the transaction. Optionally add the "W" flag to produce a pay-to-witness-script-hash output. Optionally add the "S" flag to wrap the output in a pay-to-script-hash output.
.IP
replaceable(=N)
.IP
Set Replace-By-Fee (RBF) opt-in sequence number for input N. If N is not provided, the command attempts to opt in all available inputs for RBF. If the transaction has no inputs, this option is ignored.
.IP
sign=SIGHASH-FLAGS
.IP
Add zero or more signatures to the transaction. This command requires JSON registers:
.B prevtxs
and
.B privatekeys .
See
.B signrawtransactionwithkey
documentation for the format of sighash flags and JSON objects.

.PP
Register commands:
.IP
load=NAME:FILENAME
.IP
Load JSON file FILENAME into register NAME.
.IP
set=NAME:JSON-STRING
.IP
Set register NAME to the given JSON string.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 The Sixbit Core developers
.PP
Please contribute if you find Sixbit Core useful. Visit
<https://6bit.dev/>
for further information about the software.
.PP
The source code is available from
<https://github.com/6bit-core/6bit>.
.PP
This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license; see the accompanying file COPYING
or
<https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sixbitd(1), sixbit-cli(1), sixbit-tx(1), sixbit-wallet(1), sixbit-util(1), sixbit-qt(1)