.TH sixbit-QT "1" "April 2026" "sixbit-qt v1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sixbit-qt \- graphical user interface for Sixbit Core
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sixbit-qt
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIURI\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sixbit Core version v1.0.0
.PP
The
.B sixbit-qt
application provides a graphical interface for interacting with Sixbit Core.
.PP
It combines the core functionality of
.B sixbitd
with a user-friendly interface for wallet management, transaction history,
and network statistics.
.PP
It is suitable for users who prefer a graphical interface over the command line.
.PP
You can optionally specify a payment URI.
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB-alertnotify=\fR<cmd>
.IP
Execute command when an alert is raised (%s in cmd is replaced by the message).
.HP
\fB-allowignoredconf\fR
.IP
For backwards compatibility, treat an unused sixbit.conf file in the datadir as a warning, not an error.
.HP
\fB-assumevalid=\fR<hex>
.IP
If this block is in the chain, assume that it and its ancestors are valid and potentially skip their script verification.
Use 0 to verify all blocks.
Default: network-specific value.
.HP
\fB-blockfilterindex=\fR<type>
.IP
Maintain an index of compact filters by block (default: 0, values: basic).
If <type> is not supplied or if <type> = 1, indexes for all known types are enabled.
.HP
\fB-blocknotify=\fR<cmd>
.IP
Execute command when the best block changes (%s in cmd is replaced by block hash).
.HP
\fB-blockreconstructionextratxn=\fR<n>
.IP
Extra transactions to keep in memory for compact block reconstructions (default: 100).
.HP
\fB-blocksdir=\fR<dir>
.IP
Specify directory to hold blocks subdirectory for *.dat files (default: <datadir>).
.HP
\fB-blocksonly\fR
.IP
Whether to reject transactions from network peers. Disables automatic broadcast and rebroadcast of transactions, unless the source peer has the 'forcerelay' permission. RPC transactions are not affected. (default: 0)
.HP
\fB-blocksxor\fR
.IP
Whether an XOR key applies to blocksdir *.dat files. The created XOR key will be zeros for an existing blocksdir or when \fB-blocksxor=0\fR is set, and random for a freshly initialized blocksdir. (default: 1)
.HP
\fB-coinstatsindex\fR
.IP
Maintain coinstats index used by the gettxoutsetinfo RPC (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-conf=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify path to read-only configuration file. Relative paths will be prefixed by datadir location (only usable from the command line, not the configuration file). (default: sixbit.conf)
.HP
\fB-daemon\fR
.IP
Run in the background as a daemon and accept commands (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-daemonwait\fR
.IP
Wait for initialization to finish before exiting. This implies \fB-daemon\fR. (default: 0)
.HP
\fB-datadir=\fR<dir>
.IP
Specify data directory.
.HP
\fB-dbcache=\fR<n>
.IP
Maximum database cache size <n> MiB (minimum 4, default: 450). Make sure you have enough RAM. In addition, unused memory allocated to the mempool is shared with this cache (see \fB-maxmempool\fR).
.HP
\fB-debuglogfile=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify location of debug log file (default: debug.log). Relative paths will be prefixed by a net-specific datadir location. Pass \fB-nodebuglogfile\fR to disable writing the log to a file.
.HP
\fB-help\fR
.IP
Print this help message and exit (also \fB-h\fR or \fB-?\fR).
.HP
\fB-includeconf=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify additional configuration file, relative to the \fB-datadir\fR path (only usable from the configuration file, not the command line).
.HP
\fB-loadblock=\fR<file>
.IP
Import blocks from an external file on startup.
.HP
\fB-maxmempool=\fR<n>
.IP
Keep the transaction memory pool below <n> megabytes (default: 300).
.HP
\fB-maxorphantx=\fR<n>
.IP
Removed option; see release notes.
.HP
\fB-mempoolexpiry=\fR<n>
.IP
Do not keep transactions in the mempool longer than <n> hours (default: 336).
.HP
\fB-par=\fR<n>
.IP
Set the number of script verification threads (0 = auto, up to 15, <0 = leave that many cores free, default: 0).
.HP
\fB-persistmempool\fR
.IP
Whether to save the mempool on shutdown and load it on restart (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-persistmempoolv1\fR
.IP
Whether a mempool.dat file created by \fB-persistmempool\fR or the savemempool RPC is written in the legacy format (version 1) or the current format (version 2). This temporary option will be removed in the future. (default: 0)
.HP
\fB-pid=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify pid file. Relative paths will be prefixed by a net-specific datadir location. (default: sixbitd.pid)
.HP
\fB-prune=\fR<n>
.IP
Reduce storage requirements by enabling pruning of old blocks. This allows the pruneblockchain RPC to be called to delete specific blocks and enables automatic pruning if a target size in MiB is provided. This mode is incompatible with \fB-txindex\fR. Warning: reverting this setting requires re-downloading the entire blockchain. (default: 0 = disable pruning, 1 = allow manual pruning via RPC, >=550 = automatically prune block files to stay under the specified target size in MiB)
.HP
\fB-reindex\fR
.IP
If enabled, wipe chain state and block index, and rebuild them from blk*.dat files on disk. Also wipe and rebuild other optional indexes that are active. If an assumeutxo snapshot was loaded, its chainstate will be wiped as well. The snapshot can then be reloaded via RPC.
.HP
\fB-reindex-chainstate\fR
.IP
If enabled, wipe chain state and rebuild it from blk*.dat files on disk. If an assumeutxo snapshot was loaded, its chainstate will be wiped as well. The snapshot can then be reloaded via RPC.
.HP
\fB-settings=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify path to the dynamic settings data file. Can be disabled with \fB-nosettings\fR. This file is written at runtime and is not meant to be edited by users (use sixbit.conf instead for custom settings). Relative paths will be prefixed by datadir location. (default: settings.json)
.HP
\fB-shutdownnotify=\fR<cmd>
.IP
Execute command immediately before beginning shutdown. The need for shutdown may be urgent, so be careful not to delay it for long.
.HP
\fB-startupnotify=\fR<cmd>
.IP
Execute command on startup.
.HP
\fB-txindex\fR
.IP
Maintain a full transaction index, used by the getrawtransaction RPC call (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-version\fR
.IP
Print version and exit.

.PP
Connection options:
.HP
\fB-addnode=\fR<ip>
.IP
Add a node to connect to and attempt to keep the connection open. This option can be specified multiple times. Connections are limited to 8 at a time and are counted separately from the \fB-maxconnections\fR limit.
.HP
\fB-asmap=\fR<file>
.IP
Specify ASN mapping used for peer bucketing (default: ip_asn.map). Relative paths will be prefixed by the net-specific datadir location.
.HP
\fB-bantime=\fR<n>
.IP
Default duration in seconds of manually configured bans (default: 86400).
.HP
\fB-bind=\fR<addr>[:<port>][=onion]
.IP
Bind to given address and always listen on it (default: 0.0.0.0). Use [host]:port notation for IPv6. Append =onion to tag any incoming connections to that address and port as incoming Tor connections.
Default onion binds:
main: 127.0.0.1:16666=onion,
testnet3: 127.0.0.1:16666=onion,
testnet4: 127.0.0.1:36666=onion,
signet: 127.0.0.1:16666=onion,
regtest: 127.0.0.1:56666=onion
.HP
\fB-cjdnsreachable\fR
.IP
If set, then this host is configured for CJDNS (connecting to fc00::/8 addresses would lead to the CJDNS network; see doc/cjdns.md). (default: 0)
.HP
\fB-connect=\fR<ip>
.IP
Connect only to the specified node; \fB-noconnect\fR disables automatic connections. This option can be specified multiple times.
.HP
\fB-discover\fR
.IP
Discover own IP addresses (default: 1 when listening and no \fB-externalip\fR or \fB-proxy\fR).
.HP
\fB-dns\fR
.IP
Allow DNS lookups for \fB-addnode\fR, \fB-seednode\fR, and \fB-connect\fR (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-dnsseed\fR
.IP
Query for peer addresses via DNS lookup if low on addresses (default: 1 unless \fB-connect\fR is used or \fB-maxconnections=0\fR).
.HP
\fB-externalip=\fR<ip>
.IP
Specify your own public address.
.HP
\fB-fixedseeds\fR
.IP
Allow fixed seeds if DNS seeds do not provide peers (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-forcednsseed\fR
.IP
Always query for peer addresses via DNS lookup (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-i2pacceptincoming\fR
.IP
Whether to accept inbound I2P connections (default: 1). Ignored if \fB-i2psam\fR is not set.
.HP
\fB-i2psam=\fR<ip:port>
.IP
I2P SAM proxy to reach I2P peers and accept I2P connections (default: none).
.HP
\fB-listen\fR
.IP
Accept connections from outside (default: 1 if no \fB-proxy\fR, \fB-connect\fR, or \fB-maxconnections=0\fR).
.HP
\fB-listenonion\fR
.IP
Automatically create a Tor onion service (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-maxconnections=\fR<n>
.IP
Maintain at most <n> automatic connections to peers (default: 125). This limit does not apply to connections manually added via \fB-addnode\fR or the addnode RPC, which have a separate limit of 8.
.HP
\fB-maxreceivebuffer=\fR<n>
.IP
Maximum per-connection receive buffer, <n>*1000 bytes (default: 5000).
.HP
\fB-maxsendbuffer=\fR<n>
.IP
Maximum per-connection memory usage for the send buffer, <n>*1000 bytes (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-maxuploadtarget=\fR<n>
.IP
Try to keep outbound traffic under the given target per 24 hours. Limit does not apply to peers with 'download' permission or blocks created within the past week. 0 = no limit (default: 0M).
.HP
\fB-natpmp\fR
.IP
Use PCP or NAT-PMP to map the listening port (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-networkactive\fR
.IP
Enable all P2P network activity (default: 1). Can be changed by the setnetworkactive RPC command.
.HP
\fB-onion=\fR<ip:port|path>
.IP
Use a separate SOCKS5 proxy to reach peers via Tor onion services; set \fB-noonion\fR to disable. Default: \fB-proxy\fR.
.HP
\fB-onlynet=\fR<net>
.IP
Make automatic outbound connections only to network <net> (ipv4, ipv6, onion, i2p, cjdns). Can be specified multiple times.
.HP
\fB-peerblockfilters\fR
.IP
Serve compact block filters to peers per BIP 157 (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-peerbloomfilters\fR
.IP
Support filtering of blocks and transactions with bloom filters (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-port=\fR<port>
.IP
Listen for connections on <port>.
Defaults:
main: 16666,
testnet3: 26666,
testnet4: 26666,
signet: 36666,
regtest: 56666.
If set to a value x, the default onion listening port will be set to x+1.
.HP
\fB-proxy=\fR<ip>[:<port>]|unix:<path>[=<network>]
.IP
Connect through a SOCKS5 proxy; set \fB-noproxy\fR to disable. May be a local file path prefixed with 'unix:' if the proxy supports it.
.HP
\fB-proxyrandomize\fR
.IP
Randomize credentials for every proxy connection. This enables Tor stream isolation (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-seednode=\fR<ip>
.IP
Connect to a node to retrieve peer addresses, then disconnect. This option can be specified multiple times.
.HP
\fB-timeout=\fR<n>
.IP
Specify socket connection timeout in milliseconds (minimum: 1, default: 5000).
.HP
\fB-torcontrol=\fR<ip>:<port>
.IP
Tor control host and port to use if onion listening is enabled (default: 127.0.0.1:9051).
.HP
\fB-torpassword=\fR<pass>
.IP
Tor control port password (default: empty).
.HP
\fB-v2transport\fR
.IP
Support v2 transport (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-whitebind=\fR<[permissions@]addr>
.IP
Bind to the given address and add permission flags to the peers connecting to it. Allowed permissions: bloomfilter, noban, forcerelay, relay, mempool, download, addr. Default permissions: download,noban,mempool,relay.
.HP
\fB-whitelist=\fR<[permissions@]IP address or network>
.IP
Add permission flags to peers using the given IP address or CIDR-notated network. Uses the same permissions as \fB-whitebind\fR.

.PP
Wallet options:
.HP
\fB-addresstype\fR
.IP
What type of addresses to use ("legacy", "p2sh-segwit", "bech32", "bech32m", default: "bech32").
.HP
\fB-avoidpartialspends\fR
.IP
Group outputs by address, selecting many or none instead of selecting on a per-output basis. This may improve privacy, but can increase fees. Default: 0 unless avoid_reuse is enabled.
.HP
\fB-changetype\fR
.IP
What type of change to use ("legacy", "p2sh-segwit", "bech32", "bech32m"). Default is "legacy" when \fB-addresstype=legacy\fR; otherwise it is implementation-defined.
.HP
\fB-consolidatefeerate=\fR<amt>
.IP
The maximum feerate at which transaction building may use more inputs than strictly necessary so that the wallet's UTXO pool can be reduced. (default: 0.0001 in the chain's base unit per kvB)
.HP
\fB-disablewallet\fR
.IP
Do not load the wallet and disable wallet RPC calls.
.HP
\fB-discardfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
The feerate that indicates your tolerance for discarding change by adding it to the fee. (default: 0.0001 in the chain's base unit per kvB)
.HP
\fB-fallbackfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
A feerate that is used when fee estimation has insufficient data. 0 disables fallbackfee. (default: 0.00)
.HP
\fB-keypool=\fR<n>
.IP
Set key pool size to <n> (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-maxapsfee=\fR<n>
.IP
Spend up to this amount in additional absolute fees if it allows the use of partial spend avoidance (default: 0.00 in the chain's base unit).
.HP
\fB-mintxfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
Fee rates smaller than this are considered zero fee for transaction creation (default: 0.00001 in the chain's base unit per kvB).
.HP
\fB-paytxfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
Deprecated. Fee rate to add to transactions you send (default: 0.00 in the chain's base unit per kvB).
.HP
\fB-signer=\fR<cmd>
.IP
External signing tool; see doc/external-signer.md.
.HP
\fB-spendzeroconfchange\fR
.IP
Spend unconfirmed change when sending transactions (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-txconfirmtarget=\fR<n>
.IP
If paytxfee is not set, include enough fee so transactions begin confirmation on average within n blocks (default: 6).
.HP
\fB-wallet=\fR<path>
.IP
Specify wallet path to load at startup. Can be used multiple times to load multiple wallets.
.HP
\fB-walletbroadcast\fR
.IP
Make the wallet broadcast transactions (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-walletdir=\fR<dir>
.IP
Specify directory to hold wallets (default: <datadir>/wallets if it exists, otherwise <datadir>).
.HP
\fB-walletnotify=\fR<cmd>
.IP
Execute command when a wallet transaction changes. %s is replaced by TxID, %w by wallet name, %b by the block hash, and %h by the block height.
.HP
\fB-walletrbf\fR
.IP
Send transactions with full-RBF opt-in enabled (RPC only, default: 1).

.PP
ZeroMQ notification options:
.HP
\fB-zmqpubhashblock=\fR<address>
.IP
Enable publish hash block in <address>.
.HP
\fB-zmqpubhashblockhwm=\fR<n>
.IP
Set publish hash block outbound message high water mark (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-zmqpubhashtx=\fR<address>
.IP
Enable publish hash transaction in <address>.
.HP
\fB-zmqpubhashtxhwm=\fR<n>
.IP
Set publish hash transaction outbound message high water mark (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-zmqpubrawblock=\fR<address>
.IP
Enable publish raw block in <address>.
.HP
\fB-zmqpubrawblockhwm=\fR<n>
.IP
Set publish raw block outbound message high water mark (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-zmqpubrawtx=\fR<address>
.IP
Enable publish raw transaction in <address>.
.HP
\fB-zmqpubrawtxhwm=\fR<n>
.IP
Set publish raw transaction outbound message high water mark (default: 1000).
.HP
\fB-zmqpubsequence=\fR<address>
.IP
Enable publish hash block and transaction sequence in <address>.
.HP
\fB-zmqpubsequencehwm=\fR<n>
.IP
Set publish hash sequence message high water mark (default: 1000).

.PP
Debugging and testing options:
.HP
\fB-debug=\fR<category>
.IP
Output debug and trace logging. If <category> is omitted, 1, or "all", output all debug logging. If <category> is 0 or "none", any other categories are ignored.
.HP
\fB-debugexclude=\fR<category>
.IP
Exclude debug and trace logging for a category.
.HP
\fB-help-debug\fR
.IP
Print help message with debugging options and exit.
.HP
\fB-logips\fR
.IP
Include IP addresses in debug output (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-loglevelalways\fR
.IP
Always prepend a category and level (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-logsourcelocations\fR
.IP
Prepend debug output with name of the originating source location (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-logthreadnames\fR
.IP
Prepend debug output with name of the originating thread (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-logtimestamps\fR
.IP
Prepend debug output with timestamp (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-maxtxfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
Maximum total fees to use in a single wallet transaction; setting this too low may abort large transactions. (default: 0.10 in the chain's base unit)
.HP
\fB-printtoconsole\fR
.IP
Send trace and debug info to console (default: 1 when no \fB-daemon\fR).
.HP
\fB-shrinkdebugfile\fR
.IP
Shrink debug.log file on client startup (default: 1 when no \fB-debug\fR).
.HP
\fB-uacomment=\fR<cmt>
.IP
Append comment to the user agent string.

.PP
Chain selection options:
.HP
\fB-chain=\fR<chain>
.IP
Use the chain <chain> (default: main). Allowed values: main, test, testnet4, signet, regtest.
.HP
\fB-signet\fR
.IP
Use the signet chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=signet\fR.
.HP
\fB-signetchallenge\fR
.IP
Blocks must satisfy the given script to be considered valid (only for signet networks).
.HP
\fB-signetseednode\fR
.IP
Specify a seed node for the signet network in hostname[:port] format. May be used multiple times.
.HP
\fB-testnet\fR
.IP
Use the testnet3 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=test\fR. Support for testnet3 is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Consider moving to testnet4.
.HP
\fB-testnet4\fR
.IP
Use the testnet4 chain. Equivalent to \fB-chain=testnet4\fR.

.PP
Node relay options:
.HP
\fB-bytespersigop\fR
.IP
Equivalent bytes per sigop in transactions for relay and mining (default: 20).
.HP
\fB-datacarrier\fR
.IP
Relay and mine data-carrier transactions (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-datacarriersize\fR
.IP
Relay and mine transactions whose data-carrying raw scriptPubKeys in aggregate are of this size or less, allowing multiple outputs (default: 100000).
.HP
\fB-minrelaytxfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
Fees smaller than this are considered zero fee for relaying, mining, and transaction creation (default: 0.000001 in the chain's base unit per kvB).
.HP
\fB-permitbaremultisig\fR
.IP
Relay transactions creating non-P2SH multisig outputs (default: 1).
.HP
\fB-whitelistforcerelay\fR
.IP
Add 'forcerelay' permission to whitelisted peers with default permissions (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-whitelistrelay\fR
.IP
Add 'relay' permission to whitelisted peers with default permissions (default: 1).

.PP
Block creation options:
.HP
\fB-blockmintxfee=\fR<amt>
.IP
Set lowest fee rate for transactions to be included in block creation (default: 0.00000001 in the chain's base unit per kvB).
.HP
\fB-blockreservedweight=\fR<n>
.IP
Reserve space for the fixed-size block header plus the largest coinbase transaction the mining software may add to the block (default: 8000).

.PP
RPC server options:
.HP
\fB-rest\fR
.IP
Accept public REST requests (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-rpcallowip=\fR<ip>
.IP
Allow JSON-RPC connections from specified source. This option can be specified multiple times.
.HP
\fB-rpcauth=\fR<userpw>
.IP
Username and HMAC-SHA-256 hashed password for JSON-RPC connections.
.HP
\fB-rpcbind=\fR<addr>[:port]
.IP
Bind to given address to listen for JSON-RPC connections. Do not expose the RPC server to untrusted networks such as the public internet.
.HP
\fB-rpccookiefile=\fR<loc>
.IP
Location of the auth cookie. Relative paths will be prefixed by a net-specific datadir location.
.HP
\fB-rpccookieperms=\fR<readable-by>
.IP
Set permissions on the RPC auth cookie file so that it is readable by [owner|group|all] (default: owner).
.HP
\fB-rpcpassword=\fR<pw>
.IP
Password for JSON-RPC connections.
.HP
\fB-rpcport=\fR<port>
.IP
Listen for JSON-RPC connections on <port>.
Defaults:
main: 16665,
testnet3: 26665,
testnet4: 26665,
signet: 36665,
regtest: 56665.
.HP
\fB-rpcthreads=\fR<n>
.IP
Set the number of threads to service RPC calls (default: 16).
.HP
\fB-rpcuser=\fR<user>
.IP
Username for JSON-RPC connections.
.HP
\fB-rpcwhitelist=\fR<whitelist>
.IP
Set a whitelist to filter incoming RPC calls for a specific user.
.HP
\fB-rpcwhitelistdefault\fR
.IP
Set default behavior for RPC whitelisting.
.HP
\fB-server\fR
.IP
Accept command-line and JSON-RPC commands.

.PP
UI options:
.HP
\fB-choosedatadir\fR
.IP
Choose data directory on startup (default: 0).
.HP
\fB-lang=\fR<lang>
.IP
Set language, for example "de_DE" (default: system locale).
.HP
\fB-min\fR
.IP
Start minimized.
.HP
\fB-resetguisettings\fR
.IP
Reset all settings changed in the GUI.
.HP
\fB-splash\fR
.IP
Show splash screen on startup (default: 1).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 The Sixbit Core developers.
.PP
Please contribute if you find Sixbit Core useful. Visit
<https://6bit.dev/>
for further information about the software.
.PP
The source code is available from
<https://github.com/6bit-core/6bit>.
.PP
This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license; see the accompanying file COPYING
or
<https://opensource.org/license/MIT>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sixbitd(1), sixbit-cli(1), sixbit-tx(1), sixbit-wallet(1), sixbit-util(1), sixbit-qt(1)